update storage docs for docker 29 (#736)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: docs/explanation/virtualisation/docker-storage-networking-and-logging.md

  - `tmpfs-size` and `tmpfs-mode` options (optional). For a full list see the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/tmpfs/#options-for---tmpfs).
- `--tmpfs`: it accepts no configurable options, just mount the tmpfs for a standalone container.

### The `containerd` image store

Docker uses `containerd` to manage its images. `containerd` works via the use of snapshotters to store image or container data. Using it has enabled various features previously impossible:

> - Local building and storing of multiplatform images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker uses `containerd` to manage its images. `containerd` works via the use of snapshotters to store image or container data. Using it has enabled various features previously impossible:

- Local building and storing of multiplatform images
```

- Using images with attestations.

> - WebAssembly containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using images with attestations
- WebAssembly containers
```

- Use of advanced snapshotters to enable further feature sets:
  - Lazy pulling of images (through [`stargz`](https://github.com/containerd/stargz-snapshotter))
  - Peer-to-peer image distribution (through [`nydus`](https://github.com/containerd/nydus-snapshotter) and [`dragonfly`](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/dragonfly)).

> The `containerd` image store was elevated to the default storage backend in Docker version 29.0 and will be automatically used on fresh installs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `containerd` image store was elevated to the default storage backend in Docker version 29.0 and is automatically used on fresh installs.
```

If you are using a legacy version, or have not yet migrated, consult the upstream Docker documentation on [storage drivers](https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/drivers/),

> as that is how legacy systems will store their images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as that is how legacy systems store their images.
```

To migrate from legacy storage drivers to `containerd`, add
```json
{
  "features": {
    "containerd-snapshotter": true
  }
}
```

> to your `/etc/docker/daemon.json` file. Note that this will **hide, but not remove**, images using the legacy storage drivers. To access them, switch back to the legacy configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

to your `/etc/docker/daemon.json` file. Note that this will **hide, but not remove**, images using the legacy storage drivers. To access them, switch back to the legacy configuration.
```

A snapshotter can then be selected in the same manner as legacy storage drivers: by editing `/etc/docker/daemon.json` and adding the following:

```json
{
    "storage-driver": "your-chosen-snapshotter"
}
```

The following snapshotters are available by default on Ubuntu 26.04 LTS and onward (from the output of `ctr plugins ls | grep snapshot` on a fresh install):

- `overlayfs` **(default)**: A modern union filesystem. This is the recommended snapshotter.
- `blockfile`: A snapshotter designed for block-level storage as opposed to file-level storage. Generally useful in specialized architectures.
- `btrfs`: A copy-on-write filesystem included in the Linux kernel mainline.
- `devmapper`: A kernel-based framework that underpins many advanced volume management technologies on Linux.
- `erofs`: Enhanced Read-Only File System, a modern read-only filesystem optimized for space efficiency and performance.

> - `native`: The universal fallback driver. By virtue of just doing standard full-directory copies for each layer, this will work absolutely anywhere but will consume large amounts of disk space and will be very slow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `native`: The universal fallback driver. By virtue of just doing standard full-directory copies for each layer, this will work absolutely anywhere but consumes large amounts of disk space and is very slow.
```

Reviewer: I don't typically like to use "very" as a qualifier because it's so vague. Are we able to give a order-of-magnitude estimate for how much slower it is? And slower than what, if it's the default fallback?

  - `tmpfs-size` and `tmpfs-mode` options (optional). For a full list see the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/tmpfs/#options-for---tmpfs).
- `--tmpfs`: it accepts no configurable options, just mount the tmpfs for a standalone container.

> ### The `containerd` image store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The `containerd` image store
```

> :::{note}

Reviewer: I don't think this needs to be a note, I think it works fine as regular text. But, I'd have this part below where you have the actual body text intro saying that containerd is how images are stored. The conceptual flow would then be "this is how it is -> it switched on this version -> for versions before that, do this"

> The `containerd` image store was elevated to the default storage backend in version 29.0 and will be automatically used on fresh installs. Hence, this is the only documentation path this page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `containerd` image store was elevated to the default storage backend in Docker version 29.0 and will be automatically used on fresh installs.
```

> will cover. If you are using a legacy version, or have not yet migrated, consult the upstream Docker documentation on [storage drivers](https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/drivers/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a legacy version, or have not yet migrated, consult the upstream Docker documentation on [storage drivers](https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/drivers/),
```

as that is how legacy systems will store their images.

> To migrate, add

Reviewer: To migrate what to what?

```json
{
  "features": {
    "containerd-snapshotter": true
  }
}
```
to your `/etc/docker/daemon.json` file. Note that this will **hide, but not remove**, images using the legacy storage drivers. To access them, switch back to the legacy configuration.

This migration is completely transparent to most users. Only the underlying backend has changed, not any user-facing workflows.

:::

Docker uses `containerd` to manage its images. `containerd` works via the use of snapshotters to store image or container data. Using it has enabled various features previously impossible:
- Local building and storing of multiplatform images.
- Using images with attestations.
- WebAssembly containers.
- Use of advanced snapshotters to enable further feature sets:
  - Lazy pulling of images (through [`stargz`](https://github.com/containerd/stargz-snapshotter))
  - Peer-to-peer image distribution (through [`nydus`](https://github.com/containerd/nydus-snapshotter) and [`dragonfly`](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/dragonfly)).

> 

Reviewer: This is where I'd put the stuff above about the version switchover and what legacy systems should do

> #### Choosing a Snapshotter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Choosing a snapshotter
```

`containerd` uses snapshotters to unpack layers of container images. You can see the available snapshotters on your system with

```{terminal}
:copy:
:user:
:host:
:dir:
ctr plugins ls | grep snapshot
```

> For example, you would see the following line:

Reviewer: Nit: could you please add empty lines between terminal/code blocks and text? It helps with readability

```
io.containerd.snapshotter.v1              overlayfs                linux/amd64    ok

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{terminal}
:output-only:
io.containerd.snapshotter.v1              overlayfs                linux/amd64    ok
```
```

showing that `overlayfs` is available on your system, and loaded successfully. If the last entry shows `skip`, your system has this particular snapshotter, but you will need to do additional configuration to enable it (such as mounting a filesystem). See {ref}`Docker for System Administrators <docker-for-system-admins>` for an example of doing this for `zfs`.

A snapshotter can then be selected in the same manner as legacy storage drivers: by editing `/etc/docker/daemon.json` and adding the following:

```json
{
    "storage-driver": "your-chosen-snapshotter"
}
```

> The following snapshotters are available by default on Ubuntu as of 26.04 (from the output of `ctr plugins ls | grep snapshot` on a fresh install):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snapshotters are available by default on Ubuntu 26.04 LTS and onward (from the output of `ctr plugins ls | grep snapshot` on a fresh install):
```

- `overlayfs` **(default)**: A modern union filesystem. This is the recommended snapshotter.
- `blockfile`: A snapshotter designed for block-level storage as opposed to file-level storage. Generally useful in specialized architectures.
- `btrfs`: A copy-on-write filesystem included in the Linux kernel mainline.
- `devmapper`: A kernel-based framework that underpins many advanced volume management technologies on Linux.

> - `erofs`: Enhanced Read-Only File System, a modern read-only filesystem that is optimized for space efficiency and performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `erofs`: Enhanced Read-Only File System, a modern read-only filesystem optimized for space efficiency and performance.
```

- `native`: The universal fallback driver. By virtue of just doing standard full-directory copies for each layer, this will work absolutely anywhere but will consume large amounts of disk space and will be very slow.
- `zfs`: A next-generation filesystem that supports many advanced storage technologies such as volume management, snapshots, checksumming, compression and {term}`deduplication`, replication and more.

> #### Managing Disk Space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Managing disk space
```

`containerd` uses more disk space than the legacy storage drivers. This is because images are stored both compressed and uncompressed (as opposed to just compressed). This buys you faster pulls and pushes
at the cost of this disk capacity. If you want to change the storage directory, you can do so by editing `/etc/containerd/config.toml`:

```toml
version = 2
root = "/mnt/my-extremely-large-drive"
```

You can also routinely prune unused images with `docker image prune` to save disk space.

:::{note}

> If you are migrating from a legacy storage driver, your previous `data-root` configuration operation will *not* affect `containerd`. You will need to set `root` as described above.

Reviewer: It would be helpful to the reader to specify where they should be looking "above" - if it's this section, I'd prefer to fold this note into the text where it's most relevant. If it's the legacy docs link from earlier, let's repeat it here. Otherwise if it's about a specific section, let's put an anchor there and put a `{ref}` reference link.
